# ML-Decision_Trees-algorithm-and-Models
### INTRODUCTION
A tree has many analogies in real life, and turns out that it has influenced a wide area of machine learning, covering both classification and regression. In decision analysis, a decision tree can be used to visually and explicitly represent decisions and decision making. As the name goes, it uses a tree-like model of decisions. Though a commonly used tool in data mining for deriving a strategy to reach a particular goal, its also widely used in machine learning, which will be the main focus of this article.\
A decision tree is drawn upside down with its root at the top. In the image on the left, the bold text in black represents a condition/internal node, based on which the tree splits into branches/ edges. The end of the branch that doesn’t split anymore is the decision/leaf.\
- In general, Decision Tree algorithms are referred to as CART or Classification and Regression Trees.
- Growing a tree involves deciding on which features to choose and what conditions to use for splitting, along with knowing when to stop. As a tree generally grows arbitrarily, you will need to trim it down for it to look beautiful. Lets start with a common technique used for splitting.
- Consider the earlier example of tree learned from titanic dataset. In the first split or the root, all attributes/features are considered and the training data is divided into groups based on this split. We have 3 features, so will have 3 candidate splits. Now we will calculate how much accuracy each split will cost us, using a function. The split that costs least is chosen, which in our example is sex of the passenger. This algorithm is recursive in nature as the groups formed can be sub-divided using same strategy. Due to this procedure, this algorithm is also known as the greedy algorithm, as we have an excessive desire of lowering the cost. This makes the root node as best predictor/classifier.
